Add section with Pylance diagnostics (#6560)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/python/formatting.md

---
Order: 4
Area: python

> TOCTitle: Formatting

Author: @gregvanl  any reservations against creating a new page? happy to wait until after the release to get this change in if it'd be easier. I also changed the order of the other pages and left ContentId empty here, but LMK if I did something wrong 😊

---
Order: 4
Area: python
TOCTitle: Formatting
ContentId: c5039182-eee4-47ff-a2a8-dc28f4bc2cbc
PageTitle: Formatting Python in Visual Studio Code
DateApproved: 08/02/2023
MetaDescription: Formatting Python in Visual Studio Code
MetaSocialImage: images/tutorial/social.png
---

## Formatting Python in Visual Studio Code

> Formatting makes code easier to read by human beings. It applies specific rules and conventions for line spacing, indents, spacing around operators, and so on. You can view an example on the [autopep8](https://pypi.org/project/autopep8/) page. Keep in mind, formatting doesn't affect the functionality of the code itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Formatting makes code easier to read by human beings. By enforcing particular rules and conventions such as line spacing, indents, and spacing around operators, the code becomes more visually organized and comprehensible. You can view an example on the [autopep8](https://pypi.org/project/autopep8/) page. Keep in mind, formatting doesn't affect the functionality of the code itself.
```

You can format your code by right-clicking on the editor and selecting **Format Document**, or by using the `kb(editor.action.formatDocument)` keyboard shortcut.

You can also add the following setting to your User `settings.json` file to enable formatting on save for your code:

```
  "[python]": {
    "editor.formatOnSave": true
  }
```

### General formatting settings

Each formatter extension may have its own settings, but the ones below are supported by both [autopep8](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.autopep8) and [Black Formatter](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.black-formatter):

| Setting Suffix<br/> | Default value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| args | `[]` | Arguments to be passed to the formatter. Each argument should be passed as a separate string in the array. <br> For example:<br> `black-formatter.args: ["--line-length", "100"]` |
| importStrategy | `useBundled` | When set to `useBundled`, the extension uses the version of the tool that it ships with. When set to `fromEnvironment`, it attempts to load from your selected Python environment first, otherwise it falls back to the bundled version. |

> | path | `""` | Path to the formatter binary to be used for formatting. **Note:** Using this option may slowdown formatting. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| path | `""` | Path to the formatter binary to be used for formatting. **Note:** Using this option may slowdown formatting. |
```
```suggestion
| path | `""` | Path to the formatter binary to be used for formatting. **Note:** Using this option may slow down formatting. |
```

> | path | `""` | Path to the formatter binary to be used for formatting. **Note:** Using this option may slowdown formatting. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| path | `""` | Path to the formatter binary to be used for formatting. **Note:** Using this option may slow down formatting. |
```

| interpreter | `[]` | When set to a path to a Python executable, the extension will use that to launch the formatter server and its subprocesses. |
| showNotifications | `off`| Controls when notifications are displayed by this extension. Supported values are `off`, `always`, `onError`, and `onWarning`. |

### Troubleshooting formatting

If formatting fails, check the following possible causes:

| Problem | Solution |
| --- | --- |
| There are multiple formatters available for Python files | Set the default formatter by following the instructions in [the section above](#setting-a-default-formatter). |
| Custom arguments for the formatter are incorrect. | Check that the appropriate `<formatter>.path` setting does not contain arguments, and that `<formatter>.args` contains a list of individual top-level argument elements. |

> | Format Selection fails with Black Formatter | `black` does not support formatting sections of code. To work around this limitation, you can disable format on paste and set `formatOnSave`` to format the whole file with the following settings: `"[python]": {"editor.formatOnPaste": false, "editor.formatOnSaveMode": "file"}`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Format selection fails with Black Formatter | `black` does not support formatting sections of code. To work around this limitation, you can disable format on paste and set `formatOnSave`` to format the whole file with the following settings: `"[python]": {"editor.formatOnPaste": false, "editor.formatOnSaveMode": "file"}`.|
```

Author: because it's a command name, I think I'll leave capitalized but will bold it for consistency
